[MUSIC]
>> Ben: Okay, so
over lunch somebody sent me this.
Is it James?
Is that right?
Okay, so
we're gonna talk about a different kind of
responsiveness here today this afternoon.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Ben: [LAUGH]
>> Ben: There you go.
[LAUGH] I have no idea why we're looking
at this, but I thought it was kinda funny.
And James shared it so,
[LAUGH] [COUGH] yeah, there you go, enjoy.
Okay, so before we jump into retrofitting,
couple things.
I didn't get to talk to anybody
about having beers this evening.
Is there anybody who's actually
interested in doing this, or
am I gonna be drinking alone?
Okay, awesome, nice.
So, we got a handful.
I don't know where I am, so you guys
are gonna have to recommend a good place.
Hopefully it's not that far from here.
Someplace that we can get to quickly and
get back.
>> Speaker 2: That would be,
I'll tell you after.
Well, Burger Jones.
>> Ben: Okay, so, if you're interested in
having some brew after this we can talk
shop a little bit or we can just drink.
That's fine, too.
But just hang around
a little bit after and
we'll figure out.
>> Ben: Okay.
>> Ben: So what dying questions do we have
after our morning?
Anybody?
No questions at all.
I'm either a really good teacher or
you guys are really smart,
one of the two, right?
[LAUGH] Okay, so let's talk
a little bit about retrofitting.
I believe that there are times in the life
of an organization when starting over
with their web presence
is a really good idea.
But I also think that there are times,
I also think that a lot of times
we kinda jump to that conclusion.
I think we're tempted by file new and
starting from scratch, and
not having to figure out
what's already going on.
But I would like to see us,
as a community,
start to kind of evolve our sights a bit
more than just redesign them all the time.
Now I say that as
my organization is embarking on
a complete rebuild of our site.
[LAUGH] So I mean, I get it.
Sometimes it's something
that you gotta do.
But not only is it something that we kinda
sometimes have to choose whether we start
over or not, but sometimes we're
in a scenario where we're asked by
a customer to do sort of the minimal that
we can do to get a better experience.
And so what I wanna do is,
somehow we've kind of gotten into a couple
projects here where we've been asked
to do some of those kinds of things.
So I have a little bit of experience
embarking down those kinds of paths.
And I wanna share with you guys a little
bit about what I've learned there.
So quickly, what is a Retrofit?
Here's kind of how I wanna define it, just
for the sake of our conversation today.
Finding the fastest and lowest-risk
approach to creating a better experience
on an existing site for
users of any screen, okay?
Any screen size.
Now we're not necessarily talking
about a specific implementation.
So it may be that sometimes you're
allowed to rewrite the HTML.
And that's, you're just sort of
retrofitting the back end essentially, and
then you can redo everything on the front.
It may be that you're not allowed to touch
the HTML, and you have to only write CSS.
And we've been put in
that position many times.
And there's some really, I mean there's,
you can imagine how challenging that could
be depending on how that markup looks.
So I wanna walk you guys
through two different things.
We're gonna cover some techniques you
can use to try and do some retrofitting.
And we're also gonna talk
about something that,
I refuse to talk about retrofitting
unless I get to also talk about how you
work with the client in
a retrofitting scenario, okay?
So you'll see why I
think that's important.
I mentioned a little earlier this
morning this book by Kristofer Layon,
a really, really good book.
Nice short read, actually I think
I even have it with me here.
That's how good it is.
I carry it with me.
All right, this is really good.
If you wanna come up and
take a look, you're welcome to.
But it's just a lot of really
good information about
how to create a better experience for
users on small screens in particular.
But using these kinds of techniques
that we've talked about,
when you can't always start over.
Dealing with legacy sites.
So, a really good resource for
this kinda thing.
[COUGH] I also have another
repository that we could,
if you're interested in looking at
some of these kinds of techniques,
I have a separate one out on GitHub.
If you just go to github.com/BenCallahan
there's a rwd-retrofitting.
And a lot of these examples
are in there as well.
And this'll be in the slides if you don't
wanna necessarily get into the code
for this part.